Policy Documents at DxDy
1. How can I apply for leave?
2. What is the WFH Policy?
3. How can I gain an exemption for WFH?
4. How many days of paternity leave can I get?
5. What additional benefits are available to me from the company?
6. How can I apply for maternity leave?
7. How can I get training for a technology that I’m learning?
8. Can I get dinner and transport reimbursed when I work late?
9. Where can I find out what expectations are there of me from a company point of view?
10. I feel like I’m being bullied, what should I do?

1. How can I apply for leave?
At DxDy, we value the well-being and work-life balance of our employees. We recognize the importance
of taking time off to recharge, manage personal commitments, and address unforeseen circumstances.
Leave Process;
Planned Leave;
•

•

Your request needs to be informed 2 days prior to your immediate supervisor via email looping in
the HR department. You are to ensure; the leave has been approved by your immediate supervisor
before utilizing the leave.
If your request is for 4 or more days of leave at once, you are to send in your request a week prior
to make the necessary arrangements while you’re away. You are to send in your request to your
immediate supervisor via email looping in the HR department. Please ensure; the leave has been
approved by your immediate supervisor before utilizing the leave.

Unplanned Leave;
•

This type of request may occur when illness, death, or the reason that contributes towards, the
individual not physically being in the office. You are to first inform your immediate supervisor or
the HR department via a phone call or WhatsApp message about your unavailability so that you
may attend to the urgency. However, within the course of the day, an email should be sent to
your immediate supervisor via email looping in the HR department, for the utilized unplanned
leave.

The leave email should clearly specify the dates and if the request is for multiple dates, the number of
days requested and the date when returning back to the office should be clearly mentioned.

2. What is the WFH Guideline?

The WFH guideline is established to ensure our staff is supported by giving flexible work arrangements to
carry out their work-related tasks, despite the company currently practicing an onsite attendance policy.
Eligibility: The company has segregated the WFH requests into 3 main categories. All requests will be
submitted to the management to obtain prior special approval.
Equipment and Technology: The company will provide all hardware and software as per the job role.
However, it’s the responsibility of the individual to take care of the equipment.
Workspace and Environment: When WFH, you are to ensure that you create a workspace that will allow
you to work without disturbance or interruptions, especially during important client/team calls.
Work Hours and Availability: At DxDy, we are not rigid on the work hours. However, you are held
accountable to complete your given tasks for the day and ensure to inform your immediate supervisor
and teammates when you are away from the laptop due to urgency.

3. How can I gain an exemption for WFH?
You may forward your requests to the HR department and upon obtaining special approval, you will be
eligible for an exemption for WFH. For more details, please contact the HR department.

4. How many days of paternity leave can I get? (Dummy Data)
You are to inform the HR department along with your immediate supervisor prior to the dates for the
confinement in order to inform and obtain leave. You are entitled to 3 days of paid paternity leave.
once the confinement is delivered, you are to inform the HR department, and 03 working days from the
date of confinement, you are eligible to utilize the pre-approved paternity leave.

5. What additional benefits are available to me from the company?
All DxDy team members are given insurance coverage, which is inclusive of both dental and spectacle
covers. After completing the 01st month, you are eligible for this benefit.

6. How can I apply for maternity leave?
You are to inform the HR department along with your immediate supervisor ahead of time on the
tentative dates for the confinement in order to inform and obtain prior leave. You are entitled to
maternity leave as per the Shop and Office Act.
once the confinement is delivered, you are to inform the HR department, after which from the next
working day onwards you will be on maternity leave (Excluding weekends and mercantile holidays as per
the Sri Lankan Calendar).

7. How can I get training for a technology that I’m learning? (Dummy
Data)
You are required to inform your immediate supervisors of the new technology you have completed
learning. Your supervisor will assign you to an ongoing/upcoming project to obtain hands-on training.

8. Can I get dinner and transport reimbursed when I work late?
(Dummy Data)
Your immediate supervisor will need to confirm why you had to work the extra hours. Working extra hours
are only considered when a request is pushed from the client’s end to meet the deadline. This
requirement needs to be justified and confirmed by the supervisor. Once details have been confirmed,
The HR department will reimburse the costs incurred as per the guidelines given out by the company.
Please reach out to the HR department for more details.

9. Where can I find out what expectations are there of me from a
company point of view? (Dummy Data)
Every employee is given a Job description, along with the Key Performance Indicators for that financial
year.
Each year an employee is eligible for one employee performance appraisal cycle in October or March.
Within the first six months of their employment life cycle, they will be given a platform where expectations
are clearly communicated along with constructive feedback for improvement. And the balance 06 months
each individual’s performance will be monitored and assessed followed by rewards and recognitions
based on their individual performances.
Nevertheless, at DxDy, we encourage open channels between your immediate supervisors and the HR
department to communicate or clear out concerns related to work or any other related area connected
to your career growth.

10.

I feel like I’m being bullied, what should I do?

Here at DxDy, harassment, and bullying are not tolerated. We ensure to create a safe and respectful
environment for everyone involved.
Definition of Harassment and Bullying: Unwelcome behavior, verbal or written abuse, threats,
intimidation, physical assault, or any actions that create a hostile or offensive environment for individuals.
Prohibited Conduct: Derogatory comments, slurs, offensive jokes, spreading rumors, cyberbullying, or any
other forms of mistreatment.
Reporting Mechanism: Currently we have appointed Kamila, our COO, Amalan, our Tech Lead, and Hannah
from the HR department as designated individuals for receiving and handling complaints, as well as
outlining multiple reporting options (e.g., anonymous reporting, alternative reporting channels) to ensure
individuals feel comfortable coming forward. If the nominated individuals are not your first preference,
you are encouraged to share this with the person you are mostly comfortable with. These reports will be
handled with sensitivity and confidentiality to the extent possible. Any form of retaliation against
individuals who report harassment or bullying is strictly prohibited and will be subject to disciplinary
action.
Investigation Process: An investigation will be conducted to gather evidence, interview relevant parties,
and reach a resolution. Investigations will be conducted impartially and promptly.
Disciplinary Measures: Individuals found responsible for harassment or bullying, will be subject to
disciplinary actions by way of warnings, reprimands, suspension, termination of employment, or any other
appropriate measures.

